pytest for atf ; netlink support (#561)
freebsd/freebsd-quarterly: 2022q4/netlink.adoc

POSIX defines an API for base functions/system calls.
There is no such standard for the plethora of protocol/device-level/subsystem-level ioctls.
Each subsystem/driver invents its own protocol, handling format and compatibility.
Extendability is a notable problem in the networking control plane.
For example, it is extremely hard to add properties to the routing socket messages without breaking compatibility.

Netlink offers unification by providing a standard communication layer and basic easily-extendable message formatting.
It can serve as a "broker", automatically combining requested data from different sources in a single request (example: interface state dump).
Netlink APIs lower the bar for application developers to support FreeBSD, while providing the desired extendability.

==== Current status

Netlink has been committed to HEAD.
The code implements a subset of the `NETLINK_ROUTE` subsystem and `NETLINK_GENERIC` framework.

`NETLINK_ROUTE` supports add/delete/replace operations for routes, nexthops and link-level addresses.
Partial support exists for the interface addresses and interfaces.

Linuxulator support for Netlink has been committed to HEAD.

> It is possible to use unmodified ip with routes, nexthops, addresses and interfaces.

Reviewer: "ip"? Do you mean "API" here?

Author: Indeed it looks ambiguous. I meant "ip from iproute2".

> It is possible to use unmodified iproute2 ip binary with routes, nexthops, addresses and interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to use the unmodified ip from iproute2 with routes, nexthops, addresses and interfaces.
```

The simple userland library, snl(3), that provides convenient abstractions on the netlink socket, has been committed to HEAD.

> The first third-party software, BIRD, link:https://gitlab.nic.cz/labs/bird/-/commit/1e47b9f203aaaad0fb658d40a1670f1d0437f1f8[added] experimental FreeBSD Netlink support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first third-party software, BIRD, link:https://gitlab.nic.cz/labs/bird/-/commit/1e47b9f203aaaad0fb658d40a1670f1d0437f1f8[added experimental FreeBSD Netlink support].
```
